.\" Manpage for power-monitor.
.\" Regenerate the web/terminal docs from README.md; keep this in sync by hand.
.TH POWER-MONITOR 1 "2026-06-09" "power-monitor" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
power-monitor \- Apple Silicon power and performance monitor
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B power-monitor
.RI [ COMMAND ]
.RI [ OPTIONS ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B power-monitor
reads power, temperature, fan RPM, CPU/GPU utilisation and frequency, voltage,
current, battery state, and RAM/swap on Apple Silicon Macs by talking directly
to AppleSMC, libIOReport, and IOKit over FFI. It spawns no subprocesses and
needs no elevated privileges for reading (writing fan state requires root).
.PP
With no command it renders a live terminal dashboard. Color and cursor control
are emitted only when standard output is a terminal.
.SH COMMANDS
.TP
.B (none)
Live TUI dashboard. Exits cleanly on
.B Ctrl-C
or
.BR SIGTERM ,
restoring the cursor.
.TP
.B pipe
Stream one JSON object per sample window to standard output (NDJSON).
.TP
.B serve
Serve a JSON snapshot and Prometheus metrics over HTTP.
.TP
.B collect
Aggregate many
.B serve
agents into one fleet dashboard.
.TP
.BI "fan " <max|auto>
Force fans to maximum or restore automatic control. Requires root.
.TP
.B doctor
Run health checks on the monitoring subsystems and print a checklist.
.TP
.B man
Print the man page to standard output, or
.B "man --install"
to install it.
.TP
.BI "completion " <bash|zsh|fish>
Print a shell completion script to standard output.
.TP
.BI "help " [COMMAND]
Show help, optionally for a single command.
.SH GLOBAL OPTIONS
.TP
.BR \-h ", " \-\-help
Show help on standard output and exit 0.
.TP
.BR \-V ", " \-\-version
Print the version and exit.
.TP
.B \-\-no\-color
Disable color in the dashboard. See also
.BR NO_COLOR .
.SH "PIPE OPTIONS"
.TP
.BR \-s ", " \-\-samples " " \fIN\fR
Stop after N samples (default 0 = infinite).
.TP
.BR \-i ", " \-\-interval " " \fIN\fR
Sampling window in milliseconds (default 1000).
.SH "SERVE OPTIONS"
.TP
.BI \-\-bind " ADDR"
Bind address (default 127.0.0.1; use 0.0.0.0 for LAN).
.TP
.BR \-p ", " \-\-port " " \fIN\fR
Listen port (default 9090).
.TP
.BR \-i ", " \-\-interval " " \fIN\fR
Sampling interval in milliseconds (default 1000).
.TP
.BI \-\-auth " TOKEN"
Require an
.B Authorization: Bearer TOKEN
header on every request. Insecure: the token is visible in
.BR ps (1)
output and shell history. Prefer
.BR \-\-auth\-file .
.TP
.BI \-\-auth\-file " PATH"
Read the bearer token from the first line of PATH. On
.B \-\-install
the path (not the token) is written to the launchd plist.
.TP
.BR \-\-install ", " \-\-uninstall
Install/remove a launchd user agent that runs the server at login.
.SH "COLLECT OPTIONS"
.TP
.BI \-\-host " LIST"
Comma-separated agent targets (host[:port]).
.TP
.B \-\-tailnet
Auto-discover online peers via
.BR "tailscale status" .
Mutually exclusive with
.BR \-\-host .
.TP
.BR \-p ", " \-\-port " " \fIN\fR
Dashboard HTTP listen port (default 8080).
.TP
.BR \-i ", " \-\-interval " " \fIN\fR
Per-agent poll interval in milliseconds (default 1000).
.TP
.BI \-\-auth " TOKEN" ", " \-\-auth\-file " PATH"
Bearer token forwarded to every agent and enforced on the dashboard. See the
serve options for the security note.
.SH ENVIRONMENT
.TP
.B NO_COLOR
If set to a non-empty value, disables color (https://no-color.org).
.TP
.B TERM
If
.BR dumb ,
color is disabled.
.SH "EXIT STATUS"
.TP
.B 0
Success, or help/version requested.
.TP
.B 1
Runtime failure (e.g. could not open a subsystem or bind a port).
.TP
.B 2
Usage error (unknown command/flag, missing or invalid value).
.SH EXAMPLES
.PP
Live dashboard:
.PP
.RS
.EX
power-monitor
.EE
.RE
.PP
Stream metrics as NDJSON and pretty-print:
.PP
.RS
.EX
power-monitor pipe | jq
.EE
.RE
.PP
HTTP exporter with a file-based token, installed at login:
.PP
.RS
.EX
power-monitor serve --bind 0.0.0.0 --auth-file ~/.pm-token --install
.EE
.RE
.PP
Fleet view across a tailnet:
.PP
.RS
.EX
power-monitor collect --tailnet --port 8080 --install
.EE
.RE
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR jq (1),
.BR launchctl (1),
.BR tailscale (1)
.PP
Full documentation and issues: https://github.com/electricapp/power-monitor
